.TH HSH 1 "January 2026" "Version 1.0" "Simple Shell Manual"
.SH NAME
hsh \- simple command line interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hsh
is a simple UNIX command line interpreter (shell) that reads commands from standard input and executes them. It is a minimalist implementation of a shell program designed as part of the Holberton School curriculum.
.SH USAGE
The shell works in both interactive and non-interactive mode. In interactive mode, it displays a prompt and waits for the user to type a command. The prompt is displayed as "$ ".
.PP
Commands can be executed in the following ways:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
By absolute or relative path (e.g., /bin/ls or ./program)
.IP \[bu]
By command name, which will be searched in the directories listed in the PATH environment variable
.RE
.SH COMMAND EXECUTION
The shell searches for and executes commands in the following order:
.RS
.IP 1. 3
Built-in commands (exit, env)
.IP 2.
If the command contains a '/', it is treated as a path and executed directly if it exists and is executable
.IP 3.
The command is searched in the directories specified in the PATH environment variable
.RE
.SH BUILT-IN COMMANDS
.TP
.B exit
Exits the shell. No arguments are required.
.TP
.B env
Prints the current environment variables, one per line.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The shell uses the following environment variables:
.TP
.B PATH
Colon-separated list of directories to search for commands.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The shell returns the exit status of the last command executed. Commands that are not found return an exit status of 127.
.SH EXAMPLES
Interactive mode:
.RS
.nf
$ /bin/ls
file1 file2 file3
$ ls -l
total 40
-rw-r--r-- 1 user user 1234 Jan 7 10:00 file1
$ pwd
/home/user
$ exit
$
.fi
.RE
.PP
Non-interactive mode:
.RS
.nf
$ echo "/bin/ls" | ./hsh
file1 file2 file3
$ echo "pwd" | ./hsh
/home/user
.fi
.RE
.SH SIGNAL HANDLING
The shell handles SIGINT (Ctrl+C) by displaying a new prompt instead of terminating.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The shell returns the exit status of the last executed command. If EOF is reached (Ctrl+D), the shell exits with the status of the last command.
.SH AUTHORS
Written as part of the Holberton School Simple Shell project.
TOM VIEILLEDENT
FLORIAN ROOSEBEKE
.SH SEE ALSO
sh(1), bash(1), execve(2), fork(2), wait(2)
